Hello everyone in this lesson we will continue to learn about it.
So we have two main goals in this lesson.
Number one we want to grow our get vocabulary.
This just means we will learn about key terms and phrases that are used quite often and good.
And our other goal is to simply see get in action.
So I will share my screen and I will walk through a real world example of using it.
All right.
So let's get started here on my desktop.
I have a folder named most advanced site.
It's a bit of a joke name all that it contains is a single HMO file and CSSA folder with one CSSA file.
Ok so here's what that looks like in a web browser.
And let's imagine that the CEO of this amazing company and Web site has asked us to remove this line
of text that says single page.
And to make this header orange so in our text editor we would simply open up the HMO file it would delete
that line of code that says single page in the CSSA file.
Maybe we'd add a rule that says target the H-1 color orange save it.
Refresh it.
All right so this is nothing new.
This is not exciting.
What we want to see is how it comes into the equation.
We know that get can track changes made to our project files.
So how do we make sure that the changes we just made get saved into gets history to answer that we're
going to take a quick vocab a time out.
OK so first off and get we don't call something a project we call it a repository or a repo.
A repository is where it saves all of the data all of the history all of the changes that it tracks
for a particular project.
OK.
Our next term is the working directory the working directory is simply the folder location on your computer
where your project lives.
So in this case we had a folder on the desktop named most advanced site.
This is the working directory for this repository.
So good job for this repo is to track any changes we make to any of the files within this folder.
OK.
So our next term is commit.
What does a commit.
Well get doesn't save or store changes we make into its history until we actively commit those changes.
You can think of a commit as a secondary save.
Right.
So in our text editor when we edit a file we save it.
We hit command s or control.
So we go to File Save and that saves the files to our hard drive like normal but we get nothing gets
saved.
History database until we make a commit.
Now we will commit our changes in just a moment.
But first there's one last term we need to learn about.
And that term is staging in good before we are allowed to commit changes.
We first have to stage our changes.
So what does that mean.
Well I like to think of real estate sometimes before you can sell a home.
You first have to stage the home staging just means getting something ready or preparing something now
and get staging is our chance to have fine grained control on what we are committing.
Here's an example.
So let's say we are working on a larger project and we have made edits to 12 different files.
Maybe we were experimenting and trying new things with code but we only want to commit 4 of those files
into gets history maybe in the other eight files.
We made mistakes or we realized that those files weren't even necessary.
Whatever the case the point is is that we don't we just want to push every change we've made into a
commit.
So staging is our chance to say you know what.
I don't want all of these.
I only want this file this file this file and this file those get moved into the staging area.
I take a second to review what I've staged.
I'm happy with it so I commit those staged files.
Ok so now we've covered all of the terms that we needed to learn.
Let's get back to sharing my screen and actually committing the changes we made to this page.
All right so in order to tell good which files I want to stage I'm going to need to do something that
might seem a bit scary at first.
I'm going to open my terminal.
Also known as the command line.
Every computer whether you're running Windows or Mac or Linux has a command line the command line is
simply a place where we can type commands.
Now some of you are thinking is this really how we need to interact with get.
Isn't there an app or a program that would make interacting with get easier.
Well this lesson is neither the time nor place for that conversation.
In our next lesson I will try to convince you why using get from the command line is in your very very
very best interest.
Also in this lesson I don't want you to worry about trying to follow along step by step on your computer.
And I don't want you to worry about trying to memorize each individual little step in our next lesson.
I will help you install get on your computer.
I will help you find a command line on your computer and we can walk through all of these technical
steps at a much slower pace together.
But in this lesson I want you to sit back a bit relax and just try to observe the general flow of what's
going on.
Don't worry about memorizing everything.
All right so first I get to give me a recap of what I've changed lately so if I type good and then a
new word status gets status get lets me know that these are the two files that have been modified.
OK so I know that I want to stage both of those files.
Ok so instead of having to pick which files I want to stage I can just say get ADD.
I want to add to the staging area get add hyphen a.
This will add all changes to the staging area.
So now if I run get status again get tells us that.
OK here are your changes that are ready to be committed.
These are the files that I had in mind so this staging area looks good to me.
I'm ready to commit it.
So I just typed get commit and it's always a good idea to include a message with your commit.
So I'll type HIF and am in a bit of a quote and I will say I made the header orange and removed a line
of text.
And we've successfully committed those changes in its history.
The reason this is so nice is now even if in the middle of the night our cat sneaks onto our laptop
and deletes all of our code and says ha ha ha.
Cats rule and they erase our CSSA file and just say purring and sitting in the sun.
OK and we refresh and our hard work is gone.
All we need to do is come into our command line and type.
Check out
our files are right back to the state that they were in when we made our last commit.
And even if your cat is especially evil and delete your files outright in the middle of night moves
them to the trash and your cat is even intelligent enough to empty your trash and even close out your
text editor.
Get has still got us covered.
So we just go over to the command line.
Check out the files are restored.
OK so now we know that the files in our repository are cat proof but are they disaster proof meaning
if we accidentally throw our laptop into a pool of water or off the side of a cliff would we be able
to still access the files.
Let's answer that question right now.
In the final section of this lesson titled push and pull.
OK so good.
Stores all of its history data in a hidden folder in the root of your get repository.
So for example in the project that we've been working on this lesson is most advanced site folder get
actually has a hidden system folder that we can't see right now.
And in that folder it stores all of the commits all of the changes all of the history for our repo gets
stores all of this locally meaning on your computer's hard drive.
Now if all of this data is only on your hard drive that means a few things.
Number one if your computer blows up your repository is completely lost.
And number two collaborating with a team of others is going to be pretty difficult considering only
you have access to your computer.
Now we can solve both of these issues by hosting our get repository on a server somewhere.
This is exactly what the popular service name to get hub offers there's a good chance you've heard of
get her before and really quickly I want to point out that good does not equal get hub get hub.
It's just one of many many many services that can host your repositories get hub just happens to be
the most popular service and it's also the one that we will be using throughout this course.
Let's take our first Super quick look at Get hub right now.
So in a web browser I'm just going to go to get club dot com.
And then from there visit the particular repository or project that I want to work on.
So here is the super advanced web site.
You'll remember that name from the one we were working on earlier.
So here's the good of overview page for this repository you can see here are the files here in the index
that each TNL file that we edited earlier can even preview the code in the browser.
But if we go back to the overview page and click on commits you can see here are all of the commits
in this project's history and you will notice that the commit we made earlier in this lesson where we
made the text orange and removed a line that's not showing up here in this list of commits.
And that's because we committed that to our local copy of the repository.
But now we need to take what's on our computers hard drive.
We need to take that get repository and push it up to the server.
So I will jump back over to my command line and I'll just type get push origin master again don't worry
about what I'm typing we will learn about this in the next lesson.
But for now I typed that in and if we go back to get hub and refresh this page we see here is the commit
that we worked on earlier and if I click it we can see the details get hub even tells us you change
two files and if we scroll down it even highlights in green the lines of code that we added and it highlights
in red the line of code that we removed.
Now the only thing that I want you to absolutely remember from the last minute is that what we just
did is called a push.
We took the repository that was on our hard drive and we pushed it up to the server.
So now the server is up today and has our latest changes.
OK so that's a push.
What is a poll.
Well let's imagine that we go on vacation for a week and while we're gone our coworker makes a few updates
to the Web site's code.
So a week later we get back from our vacation we go to get Herb we click on commits and we see that
there are two new comments from our coworker named John Doe we can click on each commit and see what
he did.
So in this commit he changed the heading to be about dogs and he changed all of the bullet points to
be about dogs.
And in this other commit it looks like he just swapped out a few new colors.
Now imagine that our boss asks us to remove the line of text about being very loyal.
Well the files on our computer for the web site don't even contain the word loyal because while we were
on vacation our files don't automatically get updated from the server.
So what we need to do is pull in the latest changes from the server into our local repository so that
we are working with the most updated files.
So we head to the command line and I'm going to pull the keyword here is pull Don't worry about any
of the other syntax for now but I'm just pulling in the latest changes from the server.
We can see that the poll was successful.
So if I go back to my web browser of my local copy of the site and I refresh we see the color changes
that our coworker made and we also see this line of text that says is very loyal.
So our boss wants us to remove that.
So in our text editor he's going to delete that line save it.
That looks good.
So now I want to stage that change.
So let's do a status.
Yep that's the only file that I want to add.
I'm going to add it to the staging area.
That looks good.
We want to commit that get commit our message will be remove line about being loyal and then now that
that's committed Remember we want to push that to the server.
So get push or master we will review the syntax in the next lesson so don't worry about that but we're
pushing it.
K now if we go back to get click on commits Here's the change that we just made.
And that wraps up the basic get work flow that you would use on a daily basis.
Let's review what we learned in this lesson we learned what a repository is.
We learned that nothing gets saved into gets history until we commit.
And we learned that before we can commit we have to stage our changes or stage our files and we also
learned that working with a server involves pushing and pulling.
So we learned quite a bit now in our next lesson you will begin to get your hands dirty.
So I will help you install it on your computer and we will work on command line basics.
This is where things start to get fun and I will see you in the next lesson.